Clarify / add missing cloud management docs (#178)
dbos-inc/dbos-docs: docs/cloud-tutorials/best-practices.md

---
sidebar_position: 8
title: Best practices
description: Tips and tricks for succesfully using DBOS Cloud
---

> This section dives into specific behaviors and corner cases you might encounter when using DBOS Cloud.

Reviewer: Mention "best practices" so it sounds more positive.

In general, I hope this docs can guide people into the right place in a more positive tone.

## Managing applications

> ### Registration

Reviewer: Since we're merging registration with deploy from the CLI, we can fold this into the deployment section.

> * An application must be registered before being deployed. DBOS Cloud CLI will handle registration by default when you deploy an application for the first time.

Reviewer: We won't need this soon.

Author: I think we should keep it around and mention its done automatically for you.

> * Only one request at a time can manipulate an application and you will get an `application is busy` error if you attempt multiple concurrent modifications.

Reviewer: This is true for both deploy and delete. We can turn this section into a "General" section.

* Application names are unique within an [organization](#organizations-and-users-management)

### Deployment
* Interrupting a deployment request - for example, pressing control + C - will *not* cancel the deploy action on DBOS Cloud
* DBOS Cloud will prune all development dependencies. Make sure to explicitly install any runtime dependency you need with `npm install`

> * Your application must not use more than 1GB of disk space

Reviewer: Same suggestion as above, rephrase it to something like: "Each app is allocated with 1GB of disk space." so it sounds more positive.

Also mention the RAM and CPU limits, so people will know what to expect.

* DBOS Cloud stores each version of your application. You can download a specific version using the DBOS Cloud CLI [TOLINK WHEN MERGED]

### During runtime

> * Nothing on the filesystem is persisted between deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Files on disk are ephemeral. Nothing on the filesystem is persisted between deployments
```

* DBOS Cloud will keep around VMs running old versions of a workflow. This means, you need to be mindful of non-backward compatible database schema changes.

### Deletion
* Deleting an app is an asynchronous process and there is a small delay between a deletion request completing and the application being fully deleted. This means you could hit an "application is busy" error when re-deploying an application you just deleted
* An application will be deleted once all PENDING workflows -- including these previous versions -- are completed
* All application archives -- including previous versions -- will be deleted

> * You can elect to drop the application database alongside deleting an application. This will also delete all the database roles associated with the application in the database instance.

Reviewer: The app role is always deleted when you delete an app. Also, I don't think we need to mention it at all as the role is transparent to users.

Author: I wanted to mention it because they'll see the roles if they query `pg_roles`. I don't feel strongly about it, though.

### Time travel
You cannot enable time travel on an existing application. You will need to register a new application.
See more information in the [time travel](#time-travel) section.

### Swapping database instance

> While an application cannot change database once registered, you can change the database instance (server) hosting the application database. When doing so, you can also decide to redeploy a previous version of the application. This is how DBOS Cloud support point in time recovery today.

Reviewer: Provide a link to the disaster recovery doc?

## Application databases

:::tip

> Application databases are "logical" postgres databases. They are not to be confused with database *instances*, the server hosting application databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application databases are databases within a Postgres database instance (server).
```

:::

* Application databases cannot be shared across applications

> * An application cannot change its database once deployed

Reviewer: Add some pointers for people who want to modify the database: delete the app and re-create it with a different name.

### Database roles

* DBOS Cloud will create the following roles for each application:
    * `dbosadmin` - a privileged role used to execute your schema migration steps during application deployment

>     * `approle` - a user-provided role you provide when provisioning the database instance. This role has

Reviewer: The name of this role can either be user provided, or by default `dbos_user` (https://github.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact/pull/598)

>         * a CREATE grant on the application database

Reviewer: I'm thinking we should probably just grant this role a superuser role, as it is meant to be used by our users for manual debugging and migrations.

Author: Yup, to revisit

        * `pg_read_all_data` and `pg_write_all_data` grants
        * an ALL PRIVILEGES grant on all schemas and [base tables](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/infoschema-tables.html#INFOSCHEMA-TABLES) in the database instance, expect for the schemas `pg_catalog`, `information_schema`, `dbos` or `pg_toast` schemas
        * ownership on all base tables in the database instance
    * `dbosproxyrole` - a read-only role used during [DBOS Time Travel](cloud-tutorials/timetravel-debugging)

### Schema migrations
* You can instruct DBOS Cloud to run [migration commands](api-reference/configuration#database) during application deploy. These are handled by `dbosadmin`. You can use them to install extensions, create tables, etc.
* For more complex operations, you can use the DBOS Cloud CLI to connect to your database and run migrations manually.

### System databases

> * DBOS Transact relies on a _system database_ to store metadata about the application. This database cannot be configured when running on DBOS Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* DBOS Transact relies on a _system database_ to store metadata about the application. This database name is `<app_db_name>_dbos_sys` and cannot be configured when running on DBOS Cloud.
```

## Database instances

### Provisioning instances
* Provisioning instances is an asynchronous process. You can check the status of the instance with `npx dbos-cloud db status <database-instance-name>`

### Linked databases (BYODB)
* DBOS Cloud will not configure `approle` for linked database
* DBOS cloud will not provide a default SSL certificate for linked database [FIXME: what is the expected flow here?]

## Users and organizations

### Registering a new user

> - A new user needs to be signed up with DBOS cloud (through auth0) before registering a cloud account.

Reviewer 2: 'cloud' should be capitalized here

### Refresh tokens
The preferred way to programmatically authenticate with DBOS Cloud is to use refresh tokens. Note they:
* Expire after a year or a month of inactivity
* Can be revoked manually

## Time travel

> * Time travel will result in the creation of a new application database in the database instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Time travel will result in the creation of a new database called `<app_db_name>_dbos_prov` in the database server. 
```
Provide a link to: https://docs.dbos.dev/api-reference/system-tables#provenance-tables

---
sidebar_position: 8
title: Best practices
description: DBOS Cloud Tips
---

A list of tips for using DBOS Cloud effectively.

## Managing applications

> * Only one request at a time can manipulate an application and you will get an `application is busy` error if you attempt multiple concurrent modifications.

Reviewer: We can provide a solution here, for example "If you see an `application is busy` error, try to wait for a couple of minutes before retrying".

Author: it is hard to provide such a time frame because it dpends on what action is currently being done on the app. Deploys are 30seconds. Deletes a few seconds.

* Application names are unique within an [organization](#users-and-organizations).
* Your application is allocated 1GB of disk space, 1CPU and 512MB of RAM.

### Deployment

> * An application must be registered before being deployed. DBOS Cloud CLI handles registration automatically when you deploy an application for the first time.

Reviewer: We're removing app registration completely from our docs (the other PR). So we don't need this now.

Author: I removed it but the API does not work like that and I expect the question to be raised again in the future.

### Deletion
* Deleting an app is an asynchronous process and there is a small delay between a deletion request completing and the application being fully deleted. This means you could hit an "application is busy" error when re-deploying an application you just deleted.
* An application will be deleted once all PENDING workflows -- across all versions -- are completed.
* All application archives -- including previous versions -- will be deleted from DBOS Cloud's artifact store.
* Applications are assigned a [dedicated database role during deployment](#database-roles). Deleting an application will delete this role.
* You can elect to drop the application database alongside deleting an application. This will also delete all the [database roles DBOS Cloud manages on behalf of the application](#database-roles).

### Time travel
Time travel can be enabled when deploying an application for the first time. Existing applications will need to be deleted and re-deployed to enable time travel.
See more information in the [time travel](#time-travel) section.

### Swapping database instance

> While an application cannot change database once registered, you can change the database instance (server) hosting the application database. When doing so, you can also decide to redeploy a previous version of the application. This is how DBOS Cloud support [point in time recovery](database-management#database-recovery) today.

Reviewer 3: It's hard for me to understand what's happening here. You are telling me:
1. I cannot change my database (do you mean logical db name?)
2. But I can change my database instance (server)

So what does that mean? Does it mean my data moves from one server to another? What happens to the database on the old server and how does the database on the new server come to be?

Nit: add an "s" to this is how DBOS Cloud support**s** point in time recovery 
...and I don't get the connection. Maybe if you tell me a bit more about how switching database servers works, it will become more apparent how it relates to recovery.

Author: > (do you mean logical db name?)

Yes. "Logical DB name" is a term we came up with internally, but these are usually referred to as "databases"

> So what does that mean?

It is like a pointer change. The application is re-deployed with the new database as a "target". Only side effect is that PENDING workflows will be deleted -- because we do not migrate state from the previous DB instance to the new DB instance. I'll clarify.

## Application databases

:::tip
Application databases are databases within a Postgres database instance (server).
:::

* Application databases cannot be shared across applications.
* An application cannot change its database once deployed. You can delete the application and re-deploy with a new database name.

### Database roles

> * DBOS Cloud will create the following roles for each application:

Reviewer 3: I don't know about this section. We don't list the privileges of dbosadmin but we list the privileges of `dbos_role` in great detail. That seems inconsistent. That aside, why are we listing those things to begin with? This does not seem like a "best practice" but more of a "explanation how the roles work" Fair and maybe useful but what do we want the user to do about it? How should the user use these roles and for what?

        * ownership on all base tables in the database instance.
    * `dbosproxyrole` - a read-only role used during [DBOS Time Travel Debugging](timetravel-debugging).

* You can reset the password of the `dbos_role` you provided when provisioning the database instance.
* You can configure your local `dbos-config.yaml` to point to your database instance using the [DBOS Cloud CLI](database-management). This will use your `dbos_role`.

### Schema migrations
* You can instruct DBOS Cloud to run [migration commands](../api-reference/configuration#database) during application deploy. These are handled by `dbosadmin`. You can use them to install extensions, create tables, etc.
* For more complex operations, you can use the DBOS Cloud CLI to connect to your database and run migrations manually.

### System databases
* DBOS Transact relies on a _system database_ to store metadata about the application. This database name is `<app_db_name>_dbos_sys` and cannot be configured when running on DBOS Cloud.

## Database instances

> ### Provisioning instances

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Provisioning database instances
```

* Provisioning instances is an asynchronous process. You can check the status of the instance with `npx dbos-cloud db status <database-instance-name>`.

### Linked databases (BYODB)

> * DBOS Cloud will not configure `dbos_role` for linked database.

Reviewer 3: I think this is the expected flow, right?
https://docs.dbos.dev/cloud-tutorials/byod-management#linking-your-database-to-dbos-cloud

I'm not sure we need to say anything about BYODB on this page? Do we?

* DBOS Cloud will not provide a default SSL certificate for linked database [FIXME: what is the expected flow here?].

## Users and organizations

* After logging in with DBOS Cloud, a `.dbos` folder is created. It hosts your current session information, including your credentials.

### Registering a new user
* New users need to be signed up with DBOS Cloud (through auth0) before registering a Cloud account.

> * New users will be assigned their eponymous organization by default. See [organizations](account-management#organization-management) for more information about organizations.

Reviewer 3: Similar comment. This is not a "Best practice" but "an explanation for how organizations work." Are there specific things the user should do (or not do?). If not, do we need to burden them with this extra detail?
